Madhavan led Vaidehi along with great care. In all her life, this was the first time her husband had treated her with such consideration. Vaidehi was filled with wonder—could her husband truly behave this way? She smiled to herself, thinking, "The service I have rendered all these days has not gone in vain; by the grace of Lord Kannan, everything has turned out for the best."

"Why are you smiling, Vaidehi?" he asked her gently.

"It is just my desire that I should remain your wife and serve you forever," she replied.

"No, Vaidehi. You have suffered greatly because of me. Let us both reach the holy feet of Lord Kannan; let there be no more births. On our wedding day, you laughed about something and said you would tell me later, but you never did."

She then shared with Madhavan what she had been thinking when she laughed that day.

"That is fine for you, Vaidehi, that such thoughts occur to you. For me, nothing comes to mind except that Lord Kannan."

"That is true. But who was that person you were talking and laughing with the other day? He was speaking about how Kutti Kannan sings, how beautifully he praises the Lord, and how he even sings the songs you wrote at the end of his performances. He was describing the imagery in your songs, and I was laughing as I listened to him."

"So, who was he?" Vaidehi asked.

"How would I know? He attends Kutti Kannan’s concerts. He is a great devotee of Kannan, so I assumed he was an acquaintance of Kutti Kannan."

"What are you saying? He came and embraced you first, didn't he?"

"Yes, Vaidehi, he did embrace me. I wonder who he could be."

"I see. I thought he was someone close to you," said Vaidehi.

"Who else is close to me other than that Kannan and you?" As they conversed thus, they reached a forested area by evening.

"What do you say, Vaidehi? Shall we stay here today or continue walking through the forest?"

"What is there for us to fear? Kannan comes with us. We possess nothing—only these few clothes. Come, let us keep walking," said Vaidehi.

As they walked through the forest, they lost their way and strayed into the deep woods in a different direction. Suddenly, a highway robber appeared, accompanied by two or three men. "What do you have? Give me everything!" he demanded authoritatively.

"What do we have, son? We are on our way to the ashram," she said.

"The ashram? It’s not this way; you have to go that way. You have wandered very far off the path," he laughed.

"Fine, we shall go that way," she said, turning to lead Madhavan away.

"Do you think I will let you go just like that? I will search everything you have in your hands," he said, snatching their belongings. Finding only clothes, he looked up in frustration and noticed the box in Madhavan’s hand. "Give me what is in your hand!" he commanded.

Vaidehi pleaded, "Son, that is the deity he worships."

Madhavan refused, "I will not give it."

The robber lunged and snatched it from Madhavan’s hand. When he opened it, he was astonished to find a beautiful golden idol. "You have this and yet you claim to have nothing?" he shouted. Both of them fell at his feet, weeping and pleading for half an hour. Finally, they reached an agreement. "If one of you comes to serve my group, I will return this idol and send the other to the ashram," the robber proposed.

"We have only just come together. What joy do you find in separating us, son?" Vaidehi asked.

Madhavan was at a loss. He was not accustomed to serving others, yet he could not bear to be parted from his Kannan.

Understanding his predicament, Vaidehi said, "I will come to serve you. Give the idol back to him."

"Vaidehi, are you leaving me?" Madhavan cried out.

"It is alright. You take your Kannan and go. I shall go to serve them." To herself, she wept, "Kanna, I once asked that you grant him your vision even if it meant separating from me. Are you granting that wish now? Kanna, you give me exactly what I asked for! Kanna, being separated from him is difficult for me, but I am happy that he will surely receive your vision. Only then will You be the True God," she thought.

"Hmph. Come, start moving with me!" shouted the robber.

"Give the Kannan idol to him, and I will come with you," Vaidehi said.

Taking the idol, Madhavan walked toward the ashram with a heavy heart, unsure of what to do.

"Kanna, this too is your doing! Come as my companion; that is enough," Vaidehi said as she followed behind the robbers.

The thief looked at Vaidehi and asked, "How long would you have served your husband? He says that doll is more important than you, and he is leaving you behind."

"Do not speak ill of him. You are a thief; what do you know of him? What do you know of family life? This is the final fruit of all the years I have served him. This is the last service I do for him. He has never been apart from that Krishna. Due to some misfortune of mine, this has happened, yet I have one satisfaction: he and that Krishna will reach where they need to go. With that, my service is complete. My Lord will come to protect me," she said, and suddenly cried out, "Kanna!"

The thief turned back and asked, "What happened?"

"It is nothing, son. As I was walking and talking, my foot struck a large stone."

"Is that so, Mother? Shall we sit here for a while before moving on?" the thief asked. They went to sit a short distance away. One of the thieves spread a cloth and had Vaidehi sit on it. Others gathered twigs and lit a fire. Vaidehi felt thirsty. "Son, can I get some water to drink?" she asked.

The head thief signaled to one of his men to fetch water. He then reached for Vaidehi’s foot. "Show me, Mother, what happened to your foot?"

"Son, no man has ever touched my feet until now. Why must you touch them?"

"Mother, I am like your son. Give me your foot," he said, pulling her foot toward him. "Mother, it is bleeding," he noted, and tearing a piece of cloth, he bandaged her wound.

Vaidehi looked at him with compassion and asked, "You seem like such a good man. Why, sir, are you in this profession of thievery?"

"What can I do, Mother? I have been in this trade since childhood. They even put me in prison, but I escaped. I take from those who have and give to those who don't, and I take from those who don't have and give to those who do," he said, slowly placing both of Vaidehi’s feet on his lap and gently massaging them.

"I do not understand what you are saying, son."

"Mother, those with character have no wealth, and those with wealth have no character. If I snatch that wealth, character will naturally follow, won't it? That is what I do, Mother," he explained.

"That may be so, but why did you bring me here, son?"

"Many people serve me, Mother. I too had a desire to serve someone. Moreover, when I look at you, you remind me of my mother. That is why I brought you," he said.

"You say you are a thief, yet you say many people serve you. I don't understand at all."

"Yes, Mother. I just told you—I give what is missing to those who have. Not only that, I am the leader of this group. One man lit the fire, another went to fetch water; in this way, many serve me."

"I see. Do you have a wife and children?" Vaidehi asked.

"I have wives, Mother," he laughed.

"Why are you laughing?" she asked.

"It’s nothing, Mother. I have two wives. I married one properly. I abducted the other and married her."

"Fine, go on. You seem just like that Kannan," Vaidehi remarked.

"My name is also Periya Kannan (Big Kannan), Mother."

Vaidehi was startled. "What did you say?"

"Because my eyes are large, my parents named me Periya Kannan. Why are you surprised, Mother?"

"It is nothing, son. My eldest son’s name is also Periya Kannan."

"Mother, how many children do you have?"

"Kanna, I have three children. One is Periya Kannan; I am searching for him. The second is Govindan; he has gone on a pilgrimage and will return soon. The third is Kutti Kannan; he is looking after the house and everything else. Periya Kannan is a thief."

"Periya Kannan... I see. That’s quite a joke, Mother. You have three sons, and each one is different."

"Why do you say that, son? You too are my son."

By then, the water arrived. Periya Kannan took it and gave it to Vaidehi with his own hands.

Vaidehi felt a slight dizziness. "Kanna, I feel faint, son."

"Stay here, Mother," he said, calling a servant. "Lean back on his lap." Then, placing her feet on his own lap, he massaged them gently. Unable to help herself, Vaidehi lay back on his lap. As she lay there, she felt a strange sensation—as if she had touched this body long ago. She drifted into a faint. In that state, she saw a vision of Lord Sriman Narayana and Lakshmi reclining on the Milky Ocean. Then she saw the various avatars taken by Lord Mahavishnu. Finally, she realized she was lying on Lakshmi’s lap. Startled, she woke up and cried, "Kanna, what is this?" realizing she had indeed been lying in that manner.

"Oh Lord! What sin have I committed? How can You be holding my feet?" she cried out in panic.

"Mother, your service is one of selfless, pure devotion. While there are so many false devotees around Me, I too needed the love of a mother with pure devotion. Am I not your son, Mother? I am forever bound to your love, pure devotion, and service. Tell me, Mother, what boon do you desire?"

"You think of me as a mother, don't you? Likewise, your father is waiting for your vision. Please fulfill his desire; that is all I ask."

"Let the world know the greatness of you, who lived with humility and served with pure devotion. Soon, I shall grant My vision to Madhavan as well. Moreover, certain tasks must be accomplished through Madhavan. He shall shine as a great saint for the world," the Lord declared. With Adisesha shielding them like an umbrella, holding the conch, discus, and mace, and with Mahalakshmi upon His chest, Lord Narayana and Lakshmi blessed Vaidehi.

"Oh Lord!" Vaidehi cried, falling at His feet.

As she fell, her soul merged with the holy feet of Kannan. Her body was spontaneously consumed by divine fire.

Kannan, who called Himself Periya Kannan, performed the final rites for her body. The day began to dawn.