Days passed. Whatever anyone gives him, whatever he eats, Madhavan would put it near Kannan and say, "I'll eat once, you eat once," and put it in his mouth twice. He would never sleep anywhere except where Kannan was. He made Kannan's place his own. He would often come to see Kannan while playing or whenever he remembered. In this way, he became a little older.

At this time, his father had to change his place of work. The three of them went to another place. Madhavan liked that place very much because there were mountains and a river nearby that flowed through that place. In this new place, they left a room for Kannan and built a hall in it and kept Kannan there.

Madhavan also joined a big school and started studying and playing with new friends more. Seeing this, Madhavan's mother became worried and feared that her son would lose his way. So one day, she got angry and looked at Madhavan and said, "You go out to play every day, but no one looks after you in the evening. You leave your little one alone. Your father has a lot of office work in the morning too, and he gets late because he has to go and bathe your little one. Why don't you do that too? Similarly, why don't you go in return for the flowers and the things needed for the Nivedana in the evening? Can't you at least keep a small flower garden? Aren't we getting old? Can't you at least accept the responsibility of your little one?"

The mother said this hoping that he would not wander anywhere and would instead take care of the household responsibilities. Madhavan came to Kannan's house and said with great joy, "Father, they have left you to me; from tomorrow I will take care of you myself. I am very confident that if I take care of you, you will definitely come back for me soon!"

From the next day, he started taking on all of Kannan's responsibilities. Madhavan's parents were surprised. Madhavan did not go out to play in the evenings and took good care of the gardens. Whenever he got time, he collected information about Kannan. He did not go anywhere much and behaved like a good child at home.

Madhavan, who was getting older, was deeply troubled. "Kanna, you have given darshan to many devotees, why are you testing me? Won't you show me the vision? I won't let you go until you come," he says, hugging Kannan's feet every day. He is afraid to tell his parents what is on his mind. "We have grown up, we shouldn't tell them everything anymore. We shouldn't make them suffer either. Will they understand what we are saying or not?"

Because sometimes Madhavan's parents were like strangers, he didn't tell them much about Kannan and kept quiet. He was tormented inside and wanted to stay away from everyone. Madhavan's studies were over. His father insisted that he go to work. He joined the job as his father told him. Seeing the deceptions, lies and injustices happening everywhere, he couldn't stay at work and came home. He thought that if he did all this injustice, Kannan would not come. He stayed alone and didn't get involved in anything. He sat on the river bank and on the mountainside and remained lonely.

One day at dawn, Madhavan took a bath and went inside to anoint Kannan. There was a noise in the neighboring house and Madhavan's mother and father looked at each other. Madhavan's mother went out and came back after a while. Madhavan's father asked, "What's that noise next door?"

"Nothing. The boy next door is older than Madhavan. He must have liked some girl. The parents didn't agree on either side, so this morning he took the girl and went somewhere."

Madhavan's father said, "Yes, these are the ones who should get married! He should do whatever he wants! He is the one who will make them live for a long time; parents should understand this and leave the children to their own devices. Okay, let's not make a fuss," and went to work.

Madhavan continued to bathe Kannan and said, "These people are preaching to others and do not understand my mental struggle. What kind of mother and father are these? They are all selfish. They do not think about themselves when they preach to others. They should be idle rather than preaching to others. Do they do it with understanding or without understanding? Kannan, when are you going to come and when will I come out of this gathering!"

He finished the morning puja and came out. Madhavan's father asked, "Madhava, are you going to work or not? What are you going to do? You can go to work after finishing the puja in the morning; if you want, Kannan can come and see you there too."

"Dad, don't talk nonsense. I don't like cheating. I don't like lying, I don't like immorality."

"What you say is true; we should be clean as far as we are concerned. Don't worry about others. If we join in the name of work, we should come after doing the work. Don't get carried away in vain while doing the work."

Madhavan said in his heart, "Why is he torturing us? Doesn't he understand us?" Madhavan was silent again in the room. Mother finished all her work and came to Madhavan with compassion and sat down. "Madhavan, what does it mean if you always sit in this room?"

Madhavan thought to himself that when he was young, his mother had said that he left Kannan alone, and now she was saying this, and he laughed. "What, Madhavan, are you laughing?"

She said, "Nothing, mother, I remembered something and I laughed."

"Are you going to work for something?"

She said, "Mother, I want to see Kannan. Can't Kannan come?"

"Madhavan, what is this game? You are reading so many books like a small child. Even after knowing so much, can you talk like this? Don't you know that your father is suffering?" She continued her lamentations about him not wanting to take on the responsibility of the family.

Madhavan looked at Kannan and said, "Kanna, won't you come? What is all this? What is happening? I can't help but see you. I don't want to go to work, I don't want to do wrong." He was looking at Kannan and said, "Can you tell me a way out? Are they having a hard time? They have been living on their father's salary since then, so what are they saying is a hard time?"

Well, then, from today onwards, he thought. Madhavan did not eat for three days, and Madhavan's mother came near him and asked, "What are you doing, Madhavan? You have not eaten for three days. Mother, I told you not to make any expenses for me."

"You are a crazy person! You do not have to spend money on your children; you should go to work like other children and be happy. So, did you raise me for your selfish interests? You saved my life and gave me to Him, shouldn't you do anything for that old man?"

"You yourself said that day with your own mouth that we are indebted to Kannan. Now I will not leave for Kannan; I will not do anything until I get Kannan's darshan."

"Even though your father is suffering for you, you are being so stubborn. I am stuck between the two and am suffering. Okay, Madhava, someone here is making a promise. Are you coming to see him?"

He said, "Why do you have to go there? Our family situation is like this, is there any way out of this? Come on."

She said, "Mom, what are you crazy about? We are fine by Kannan's grace."

"Okay, let's ask about you."

"Come on, he doesn't have anything to ask about me. I'm telling you myself. Kannan needs to give me a vision. I will wait for him. Mom, if our guru has seen Kannan, why should we go to them? I don't have the exact address of him."

"Don't worry, Mom, I will find him in a week anyway. Okay, find out and I will give it to you," said Mother, and Madhavan said with great joy in his heart. "Dad, it's time for me to leave. Kannan, somehow, I need to find out the guru's address, take my parents to him and tell them what's on my mind, and he will also give good advice to my parents. If we tell them, they won't be able to understand, but if he tells them, there will be no further discussion."

Thinking in his heart that he would somehow find out his address, Madhavan started eating from that day on. Within a week, he found out all the places where the Guru was staying and happily came to his mother and told her. "Mother, our Guru has completed his round trip. In a town like ours, he built a temple for Kannan at the foot of the mountain and a hut for himself and lived there peacefully with accommodation facilities. Many people come and go. There is also a small river flowing there, but it is not in the town but in the forest. If you go to a town in a cart and then walk a little distance in the forest, you will reach his place. He says that no one should come on the forest path at night. This is the story."

He happily says, "Shall we go?" She says, "Let your father come, and the three of us can go."

In the evening, he was thinking about what was going to happen when his father came. He thought that his father would say that the three of them could go. In the evening, his father also came. Madhavan's mother told him everything. He was surprised that Madhavan had done a good job. He said, "We can leave tomorrow."

Then after a while, his father said, "Let's take care of the house and Kannan responsibly. We both go first and see how they are doing and then we can take Madhavan away."

Madhavan thought to himself, "Will our Guru understand what they are going to do? Will he know what is in my mind? What is this? This has become a religious embarrassment. I cannot say that I am coming. I have no money. If they need me, I should take care of Krishna. Otherwise, I have to go to work. What is the world? Why don't they understand me?" He went to sleep, regretting.

The next morning, the mother and father got ready to go to see the Guru. Madhavan's father saw Madhavan and said, "Look, I will tell the Guru everything about you. You have to do as he says. You know that."

He said, "Okay."

He said, "You also have to tell your truth."

Saying, "Okay," the mother and father left. Madhavan came to Kannan and sat down and said, "Kanna, send good news. Give me a good decision to come out of this cage. Give me your darshan. Come quickly. I am waiting for you. Don't you understand this? Will you come quickly?"

Madhavan's mother and father reached the Mahan. Since there were many devotees surrounding him, they thought that they could have darshan of the Mahan in peace and went around the ashram. Now that the crowd had thinned, they also came to pay their respects to the Mahan.

"How are you doing?" the Mahan asked.

"By the grace of God and your blessings, we have no shortage. Did Swami's journey end well?"

"Everything went well by the grace of that Kannan. As per Kannan's guidance, I have built a temple here and an ashram and am staying here permanently. Yes, your son Madhavan has not come? He has grown like a good tree! Is he still doing mischief or is he behaving like a good child?"

"A good child keeps asking questions," his father replied. Madhavan's father added, "He is a good child, he has grown up well, he has even finished his studies, but...!"

"You seem to be putting on some kind of a show," said the saint.

"Yes, Guru, I want to talk to you a lot, it would be good if you set aside time for us," they said.

"Okay, we will talk in the evening," said the saint and got up and left.

They also finished their meal and spoke to others there to inquire about how they had come to the saint. Among them were the elders and the youth. Madhavan's mother said, "We can also come here, it is so peaceful and nice."

"Yes, if your son is fine, what's wrong with us? We can come," said Madhavan's father. "This place is peaceful and beautiful. There is no obstacle for us to pray to the Lord. Our Guru is also nearby." In this way, they talked about all the glories of that place. When evening came, they received a call from the Guru. They went to see the Guru. "Sage, come and sit like this. What is the problem?"

He said, "Tell me, I will do what I can."

Madhavan's parents bowed to the Guru and sat near him. "Nothing, I have to tell you about Madhavan," said Madhavan's father.

"Tell me in detail what is wrong with Madhavan," said the sage.

Madhavan's mother said, "Madhavan is always thinking of Kannan. He is adamant that he will not do anything without seeing Kannan. He does not go to work, thinking of honesty, justice, and righteousness. He sits near Kannan at home or sits on the bank of a river or on a mountain."

"Madhavan! It's okay, how did he get so much devotion?" he asked as if he did not know anything. Madhavan's mother explained everything that had happened from his childhood until today. Hearing all this, the great and good devotee said, "How happy I am to hear this. Such devotion does not come to anyone; it comes to only one in a million. How much merit do you have to perform to give birth to such a soul? I want to see Madhava."

"Sir, he has not come. Will you leave him like this? What should I do?" asked the father.

"What have you asked me? Bring him to me; such a pure devotee is rare, especially if he is the son of my disciples."

Madhavan's mother asked, "Sir, how can we leave our only child with you?"

"If it is one child, what if it is a hundred children? Why should a blessed woman who has given birth to such a child leave the child outside? Let him do good for the world."

"Sir, we cannot be separated from him," said the father.

"Who will separate from whom? Who will join with whom? If this is all just illusion, will he go to another place as soon as he is born? We must give up the child for the good of the world. Parents should give up their selfishness regarding their child and satisfy themselves that the Lord has allowed a pure soul to be born through them for the good of the world, and pay a debt of gratitude to that Lord. Instead of that, it is not right for you to do this."

Madhavan's mother cried and said, "Our hearts are not yet ready, Swami, we cannot live without him, Swami."

"Who will separate from whom? Who came with whom? Even when we leave, we go alone. All these family ties came in the middle, didn't they? Imagine that your child is working in another town. Sir, even if my child is somewhere else, if he gets married and has children, my heart will be happy. I will also go and visit him," said Madhavan's mother.

"No one can say that all this is just an unnecessary imagination. There is no need for vain imaginations. The mark of good parents is to let their child do as they please. If the child goes the wrong way, it is the duty of the parents to reprimand him. Parents who fail to reprimand him are guilty of sin. But here, it is also a great sin for parents to prevent the child from going the right way."

They were silent for a while. "Sir, no matter how much you say, our minds are not clear. At the moment, tell Madhavan some way," said the father.

"No matter how much I say, you do not agree. Illusion is hiding your eyes, and at the same time, it seems that karma is standing in front of you. That eye should be the judge of everything," he said. After a while of silence, he started again. "Madhavan does not want to go to work, so start a good grocery store. Madhavan will get the opportunity to meet many people, so let's see how his mood changes."

The parents were also happy and said, "Okay, we will start the shop right away." They bowed to the Mahan and said, "Sir, we are leaving tomorrow morning."

"May everything happen as Kannan wishes," the sage said. In his mind, he added, "Madhava, forgive me. I have said as much as I can, but they have not asked. You can break your nest and come; it is surprising that you have not come! Oh God, we have also grown a tree—is it useful or not? I will leave it in your hands; you should find a way for this."